Title: An Open Letter to the “Bell: Let’s Talk” Campaign

----

Text: 

<span id="dropcap">“T</span>oday, let’s talk about mental health.” That’s Bell’s latest thing. Today, on February 12th, for every text message sent and every long distance call made by Bell customers, every tweet using #BellLetsTalk and every Facebook share of the “Let’s Talk” image, Bell will donate 5 cents to programs dedicated to mental health.

Hey Bell: let’s talk.

This isn’t okay. Mental health is something potentially shared within every country, every race, every community, every family. It’s a plague that can grab on to any one at all. I’ve seen its effects. It’s a scary thing. Terrifying. And you’re reducing it to a campaign.

Clara Hughes is an incredible person. This woman is one of Canada’s greatest individuals. On top of everything she has accomplished with athletics and humanitarianism, she now wants to tackle mental health and make healthcare readily available to all. Good on her. How can I help, point me where to sign. You, on the other hand, saw this as a perfect “niche” market to go after, and have picked it up as such. You have managed to slap your logo and white-and-blue brand colours on it and package it up as in a neat little marketing campaign.

(image: bell-lets-talk.jpg caption: © Bell Canada)

I know design. I know marketing. It’s what I do.

This is exploitative. When I was helping Tiarra with her (link: helping-haiti-poster.jpg text: Helping Haiti) event a couple years ago, I was adamant we get sponsorship from organizations that wouldn’t capitalize on the event simply for the ability to tack their name to it. (It didn’t work out that way and we were both very upset over it.) Idea: How about you just *donate* the money? You’ll look fantastic and can hold whatever kind of press you want afterwards. You’ll look active and generous, my phone bill won’t be $127 per month, and—most important—people who need help financially will get it right away. There’s no screwing around. There’s no putting the responsibility on us to use your services.

If you’re going to be deceitful of your intentions, go all for it, but don’t rely on me to help you get there.

“But engagement!” Fuck engagement. Here’s an idea: how about you do everything you can to promote local medical centres and health care professionals to the people that desperately need them. Raise awareness by providing answers and facilitating the process of getting help. Work with community programs. When I was fourteen I had no clue what to do, no idea where to look. And I was a smart fucking kid. You can’t even do a Google search and find something useful. Make an effort to help others and fix this.

This campaign angers me to such an extent that I am considering breaking my contract with you and leaving. On one hand, I might not be financially capable of breaking this contract, but on the other I have morals and don’t respect the harnessing of misfortunes for profit. I have been a Bell customer for a while; I’ve even renewed a couple long-term contracts with you. And you have been fairly decent with me. I can’t complain, most phone companies are difficult, they’ll all have their set of problems. At least competitors humanize a bit more.

Maybe that’s the solution right there: this company needs a little more empathy. Maybe you have to sympathize. Maybe you need to not throw pennies (pennies for you, much more for us, your happy-to-pay customers) at a very serious problem in hopes that you can drop this campaign into one of your marketing department’s success folders. I know you have one. I have one.

The good news is, at the very least, this serious issue is out in the public now. We can be reminded that mental health is a very real thing, and maybe this campaign could lead to others doing more helpful things.

“Today, let’s talk about mental health.”

Fuck you. How about we talk about mental health every single day until this gets better. How about we talk about this until it’s not something you feel the need to allot a day towards. Until a suicidal 13 year old teenager doesn’t revert to killing herself because of depression. Until everyone—and I mean everyone—realises that mental health problems can be an infestation that leads to missed school and work, severed relationships, and (yep) death.

Until we aren’t afraid to ask for help any more.

<p style="text-align:center;opacity:0.3;margin:3em inherit;">*</p>

If you’re suffering, know that there are ways. Just like the LGBT community says, “It gets better.” It does. Get help from anyone you can. Bring it up all of your friends, all of your family. Post to forums such as Reddit. See a doctor. See a school counselor. People will help, we just need to know you need it. You are not alone.

----

Date: 2013-02-12

----

Author: bengroulx

----

Metatitle: An Open Letter to the “Bell: Let’s Talk” Campaign

----

Metadesc: The Bell Canada &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s Talk About Mental Health&rdquo; campaign is an exploitative marketing campaign that is overlooking the real problems that those with mental health issues face.