Title: The Progression and Development of Typography Through Major Events and Movements from 1930 to 1970

----

Date: 2015-04-29

----

Author: 

----

Text: 

During the time period between 1930 and 1970, there have been many changes to typography due to the influence of significant events and art movements. This short research essay briefly examines the major changes during this period from a historical and informative view, particularly on the Bauhaus movement, the rise of Helvetica, and the pop art and postmodernist movements.

<p style="text-align:center;opacity:0.3;margin:3em inherit;">*</p>

The evolution of typography is a world of constant unfolding and continuous change. There is no exact date as to when a serif would immediately lose its little feet and become known as “modem,” nor is it an overnight occurrence. 

The development of typography is a design creation that can be inspired by anything the artist may find influential, and finding such an inspiration, be it a leaf or a full art movement, may take time. In fact, it took centuries before type creativity even began. Typography was restricted to serif or blackletter typefaces, as even within them the variations were slight. It is only during the turn of the twentieth century that typefaces began to branch out. Simultaneously, nearly every font created seemed to correspond with a movement of some sort, particularly beginning with Bauhaus. 

During the late 1920s and early 1930s, the world was quickly submerged by the newest design vogue of Bauhaus. Originating from the students of the namesake school of art, Bauhaus was characterized by emptiness, simplicity, and straightforwardness. It’s main focus was on progressive creativity, while remaining clean. Although it was not necessarily minimalist, it was still Bauhaus’s simplicity that had a highly influential role in the development of design, particularly type. The typographic ideology circulating was `type of our time," a modern conception that explicitly used certain types, notably sans serifs. The fonts being created all invoked Bauhaus’s “emphasis on straight edges and smooth, slim forms," as can be exemplified in Futura and Gill Sans. These two faces had been so well-structured and such exceptional examples of the movement that they came to feature the rules that would be used in modern type for the next 60 years. Most sans serif types created and used in the present day are modelled after the fonts of the Bauhaus movement, including one such Swiss font that would eventually become one of the sneakiest fads of modern history. 

Throughout the 1940s, the advancement of design and composition seemed to take a halt in time; little progress was made. Any artistic advance was forgotten or simply disregarded, both for financial reasons and the promptness to make something. Almost every aesthetic project underway was being done as a recruitment or propaganda campaign. There are few who believe the artistic regression of the war period is an art movement of it’s own, but it wasn’t until 1957 the next true movement began. 

Political and economic industry were not the only things being uncluttered following WWII. Many agreed it was necessary for design to turn the clock backwards towards Bauhaus, yet in an innovative and modern manner. One of these forward thinking men-of-design was Eduard Hoffman of the Haas type foundry (Switzerland). His goal was to create a typeface style that was a step forward from Bauhaus; a style that was clean and intelligible, but ultimately one that could be emotionless, universal, and fundamentally timeless. Max Miedenger, hired by Hoffman, created the face in 1957 as Die Neue Haas Grotesk, and it wasn’t until 1960 that the face became known as Helvetica (Latin. "Swiss"). 

There is no doubt that the biggest swing in the typography application into design came with the creation of Helvetica. The type quickly became the default font of designers all over the world, most likely due to its neutrality and objective interpretation. It has been placed everywhere; it has become a little overwhelming, even frustrating when incorrectly used, mostly because it’s ubiquity has made it "the perfume of the city. It is just something we don’t notice usually but we would miss very much if it wouldn’t be there." (Michael Beirut, Helvetica, 2007) However, nowadays Helvetica is more used than ever, and has become a half-century long fad with no signs of slowing down. Maybe it is because the face has been so overused, it is impossible to break the tradition. Or perhaps Helvetica truly is the Golden typeface. As Lars Muller stated, "Everywhere you look you see typefaces. But there’s one you probably see more than any other one, and that’s Helvetica. You know, there it is, and it seems to come from no where. You know, it seems like air? It seems like gravity." 

Around the same time as Helvetica, pop art starting to hit the mainstream. Just like with all typefaces, the movement affected the faces used. Although the emerging typefaces of pop art were slightly in the shadow of Helvetica, they were nonetheless being brought to attention. Grungier, smeared fonts began to appear, faces that conservative typographers frowned on. They typically involved nonlinear letters, a compilation of faces, and abstract elements such as halftones to created a disorganized, diverse and interesting array for a single typeface. 

Beginning in 1969 and 1970, Swiss designer Adrian Frutiger began designing fonts merely for their practicality. Advertising campaigns were becoming more suitable and pertinent, and certainly more effective. In order to break away from the now-norm being the almighty Helvetica, Frutiger set forth to develop a sans serif that would be used for the Charles De Gaulle International. Airport. The result was directly influenced by postmodernism, relying on pure practicality. There were many other influences of postmodernism in typography’ however the unifying themes was the return of the serif. It began to be popularized in design to accompany sans serifs, not as a replacement. 
The 20th century has been the most elaborate and stimulating of any art period, and has reflected upon the diversity of typography created during that time. Many typefaces created will pass as fads and be found only in history books to make way for newer, updated versions, while others will continue to thrive strong and be used. 

<p style="text-align:center;opacity:0.3;margin:3em inherit;">*</p>

Carter, S. (1987). Twentieth Century Type Designers. London: Trefold. 
Fiell, C. & P. (2005). Graphic Design for the 21st Century. Taschen. 
Rosen, B (1963). Type . and T Desiner'sType Book. New York: Reinhold. 
Fish, C. (2006, 20 September). A short history of typography. Retrieved 2 November, 2009 from http://www.dhub.org/articles/160 
Kirsanov, D. (1998, 22 February). Sans serif history. Retrieved 4 November, 2009 from http://vvww.webreference.com/dlab/9802/sansserif.html 
Hustwit, G. (Director). (2007). Helvetica [Motion Picture]. United States: Gary Hustwit.

----

Metatitle: Progression of Typography Through Major Events from 1930 to 1970

----

Metadesc: 